1.  Background and Motive
a.  Arranging group study is very hard. There is a lot of scheduling problems.
i.  We all know the hardships involved in getting friends to do things. Endless rescheduling, texting; it just occupies a lot of time and discourages people to take initiatives in arranging a group study. 
b.  Students have continuously fallen into this idea of competition. But collaboration is better than competition
i.  Ever since we are born we have been exposed to this idea that competition is required in order to survive in the real world.  As a result, we see a lot of office politics. At Brandeis, students normally compete with themselves. However, we can always sense competitive behaviour among students. 
ii. The real world is much more collaborative rather than competitive. In the real world, we need to deal with a lot of different people with different personality and preferences. Big things happen when people work together, share their ideas and collaborate. So, this app provides a platform through which it will be easy for students to reach out to fellow students and to work together. 
c.  Depending on the class structure and subject, normally, students don’t really reach out to a lot of people in their class.
i.  I have really seen this playing out in lecture based class. Students normally tend to stick with the friends that they already know, rather than reaching out to other people in the class.
ii. This is inefficient, as fellow classmates are people that have the same interests as other individuals in the class.
d.  People don’t tend to focus on the pursuit of romantic relationships on academic campuses like Brandeis; so study date 
2.  A vision of a product that solves the problems
a.  A mobile application that makes scheduling group study very easy
i.  With no effort you can reach out to all/or a number of individuals in your class
ii. Add study sessions in order to collaborate with fellow students.
b.  Provides a platform that supports resources needed for group study. The app might also mention:
i.  The kind of work on which you are currently focusing. This may also involve specifying the level of intensity of the study session, when the work will be due, etc.
ii. The level of progress that each group member has achieved on the assignment thus far.
iii.  Whether a copy of the textbook is available for sharing.
3.  Additional possibilities:
a.  A collection of apps related to studying and organizing. For example, homework reminders, a class scheduler, an academic calendar, etc
b.  Moodle in cell phone
c.  Online syllabus that can be synchronized with the app to provide a list of  homework due dates and exam dates
d.  Teachers page, where the list of important due dates and announcements can be updated regularly
